ACCOUNTS, AND "SAVE MY WORK ONLINE"

Five minutes in the Cloudflare dashboard, and both come from the same step:
one database. Skip it and the app still works exactly as it does now — every
word, every screen, every feature, kept on the device. This only adds the
server copy.

1  MAKE THE DATABASE

   dash.cloudflare.com  →  Storage & Databases  →  D1 SQL Database
   →  Create database
   Name it:  vocabx
   →  Create

   There are no tables to make. The Worker creates them the first time
   somebody signs up or saves.

2  BIND IT TO THE WORKER

   Workers & Pages  →  vocabx-proxy  →  Settings  →  Bindings
   →  Add  →  D1 database

   Variable name:  DB          <- exactly this, capitals included
   D1 database:    vocabx
   →  Deploy

   The variable name is what the code looks for. "db" or "Database" will
   bind successfully and do nothing.

3  UPDATE THE WORKER CODE

   Workers & Pages  →  vocabx-proxy  →  Edit code
   Select all (Ctrl+A), delete, paste the whole of worker.js, then Deploy.

4  CHECK IT

   Open this in any browser:

       https://vocabx-proxy.mdmukul666343.workers.dev/api/health

   Two things to look at:

       "accounts": { "rounds": 250000, "tries": 8 }
       "sees": [ ..., "DB", ... ]

   "accounts": false means the Worker cannot find the database, and the app
   will not offer to sign anyone in — it hides the buttons rather than
   showing a form whose last step fails. If that happens, the name in step 2
   is the thing to check.

ACCOUNTS

   The app asks once, on a first run: sign up, log in, or continue as a
   guest. Later it is the Profile screen — the header avatar opens it.

   Guest is a real answer, not a trial, even though it is the small print
   under the two buttons. Everything works; nothing is nagged; nothing is
   withheld — a guest gets the same Profile screen, the same standing and the
   same streak. An account buys exactly one thing: the work survives a
   cleared browser and follows you to another device.

   THE PASSWORD NEVER REACHES THE SERVER

   The browser runs 250,000 rounds of PBKDF2 over it first and sends only
   the result. The server salts that and stores the salted hash. So:

     · the Worker never handles a password, and cannot log or leak one
     · a stolen copy of the database is no easier to crack than if the
       hashing had happened on the server — a guess still has to survive all
       250,000 rounds to produce a match

   The reason it works this way is not security theatre, it is arithmetic: a
   Worker on the free plan gets 10 milliseconds of CPU per request, and an
   honest password hash costs a hundred times that. Doing it on the server
   would mean either failing every signup, or lowering the count until the
   hash was worth nothing.

   Signing in takes about a quarter of a second on a phone. That quarter
   second is the point of it.

   THERE IS NO PASSWORD RESET

   Nothing is ever emailed, because there is no mail server here. A
   forgotten password means the saved copy is unreachable — the work on the
   device is untouched, and a new account can be made. Say so to anyone you
   set this up for.

   WRONG PASSWORDS

   Eight in a row locks that account for fifteen minutes. Per account, not
   per address: two students on one campus wifi must not be able to lock
   each other out.

USING IT ON A SECOND DEVICE

   Signed in: sign in on the other device. That is all of it.

   If the second device has its own work already, the two are merged rather
   than one replacing the other — the card studied most recently wins, days
   take the larger count of each, and both answer logs survive.

   As a guest: Settings → Save my work online → "Use it on another device".
   Copy the code from the first device, paste it on the second, press Join.

   A guest code is not a password and there is nothing to reset. Whoever has
   it can read the work, the same as anyone holding your unlocked phone. Do
   not post it anywhere public.

WHAT IS STORED

   Your schedule, which words you have met, your daily counts, your streak,
   your XP, your last 400 answers, and your Ask history.

   With an account, also: your email, the name you chose, and the salted
   hash described above. Never the password.

   Not stored either way: your settings — a phone and a laptop want
   different reminder times.

   Your IP is counted once an hour to stop one script filling the database,
   as a short hash that is swept when the hour turns. It is never a key and
   never sits beside your work.

   "Delete my account" removes the account, the progress and the Ask
   history together, and frees the email to be used again. What is on the
   device stays, and the app keeps working as a guest.

COST

   Free. D1's free tier is 5 GB and 5 million reads a day. A learner's
   snapshot is a few kilobytes; you would need tens of thousands of people
   before this costs anything.
